Add chain signatures article ("what it is") (#1704)
near/docs: docs/1.concepts/account-abstraction/chainsig.md

---
id: chain-signatures
title: Chain Signatures
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Chain Signatures are a method to allow a smart contract to call an async method. For example:

```rust
async fn sign(
    payload: Bytes,
    key_derivation: Bytes,
    key_type: ECDSA) -> Signature
```

> The signature is calculated on the data payload using a user-provided key. The signature output is always the same, as long as the caller and payload remains unchanged.

Reviewer: Interestingly the signatures aren't actually the same, they're different but both valid.
```suggestion
The signature is calculated on the data payload using a user-provided key. The signature's public key is always the same, as long as the caller and the key path remain the same.
```

:::info
The signature is an ECDSA signature on the Secp256k1 curve.
:::

> ## Use cases

Reviewer: One of my concerns here is that while these use cases are still valid, they're fairly convuluted and worse they're pretty remote from how you should actually build these smart contracts.

Author: We can change /replace these use cases with others that fit better. We can share some ideas during our next call.

Author: Hi @DavidM-D , following up on this draft, do you want to replace any of the current use-cases, or want to add some new ones?

Also, let me know if you want to add more information to this article. (please link reference documents so I don't end up using outdated info)

Reviewer: I think adding in key markets is a good idea, so the ability to change the ownership of Bitcoin/Ethereum accounts to trade assets across chains without doing on chain transactions

Author: Hi @DavidM-D , I have added a section about trading assets without transactions. 

Preview link:
https://docs-preview-pr-1704.onrender.com/concepts/chain-abstraction/signatures#trade-blockchain-assets-without-transactions

:::tip
This could also simplify NEAR's sharding model, by treating each NEAR shard like one would a private shard.
:::

<!--
## Future use cases

### Chain decryptable messages [^1]

Certain on chain keys allow the following flow:

1. The sender sends encrypted data onto the chain
2. When a receiver proves they have a right to the data it is re-encrypted with their key
3. The receiver then decrypts the data

This is useful for paid content, whatsapp messages and any private data on chain.

Apart from the obvious this also enables:
- **Secret-bid auctions with MEV protection** Users can submit bids that are encrypted at the end of the auction, the smart contract can decrypt all bids with a single evaluation.
- **Dead man’s switch**. Journalists or whistleblowers can ensure that compromising information in their possession is automatically published if they were to become incapacitated
- **One-time programs** Programs that can be executed only once on a single input, and that don’t leak anything about the program other than the result of the computation

> ### On Chain Domain Control[^2]

Reviewer: Probably best to drop this, I still haven't had the time to prove that this is actually feasible.

Author: Sure, these two were commented out. I'll remove them from the draft.

---
id: chain-signatures
title: Chain Signatures
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Chain Signatures allows you to call the `sign()` method on `multichain.near`:

Reviewer 2: I want to add more context to what chain signatures are here. Only having that they allow you to call a method on a contract isn't super helpful here. I've started a doc to help with this here @bucanero: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Rxwg24SX6zT1VKdUkieeCHLlvUcJwUPHuC21XG1gUrQ

Author: Thanks for sharing, I've updated the draft and added more context about Chain signatures. 👍
